# 6. Name Services and DNS
_24/02/23_

[MoodlePDF](https://moodle.nottingham.ac.uk/pluginfile.php/9396608/mod_page/content/1/08%20Name%20Services%20and%20DNS.pdf)
## Name Services and Directory Services
### Names
- **Name** uniquely distinguishes one thing from other like it
- **Identifiers** are names intended for machine use
- **Descriptions** are statements about some aspect of a thing

### Names in distributed systems
- **Pure name** is just an array of bits
- **Address** specifically **locates** a resource
- Different **services** may use different name

### URIs, URNs, URLs
- **Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI)** - service-independent names
- Uniform resource Names (URNs) - pure names
- Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) - include information to locate and access a resource

### Name Services
- **Name Service** - Names are bound to attributes of the object/resource
- **Name Space** - Is the set of possible names in a name service. May be flat or hierarchical. Given name may be bound or unbound. Can be subdivided into name contexts
- Can be independent of the distributed system

### Example: JavaRMI Registry
- The rmiregistry application provides the name service

**Directory Services** allow clients to look up names or address using more flexible queries. SQL-like queries over attribute values

### Summary
- A name distinguishes one particular thing from others like it
	- Identifiers are names typically intended for machine use
- A name service allows a (pure) name to be resolved to an address or other attributes bound to that name
- WWW URI includes URLs and URNs
- A directory service allows resources to be looked up flexibly than a name service

## DNS - Domain Name System
- Name space is hierarchical, comprising
	- Name components or labels
- Absolute but not relative. Default domains are often configured to try as a possible suffix for unqualified names
- Attributes are encoded as **Resource Records** of various types for various purposes
- Host name resolution, i.e. mapping a domain name to an IP address
	- DNS A and AAAA records - IP addresses
	- CNAME records specify an aliases. Automatically checked when resolving a domain name to an IP address
### Lesser used recrods
- **Mail host location** - finding mail server to send internet mail to (MX records)
- **Reverse resolution** - IP address to domain name. Uses PTR records
- **Host Information** - OS. Uses HINFO records
- **Service Lookup** - Bonjour/DNS-SD. Uses dns SRV records [Lecture 15](#14.md)
- **Arbitrary Information** - TXT records

### Multiple Records/values
- Single domain name can have multiple records of the **same** type
- Multiple NS/MX/A records. 

### Administrative Domains
- **Administrative domain** - Subset of namespace with a single administrative authority
- Can correspond to a domain name suffix
- Authorities look after that root domain e.g .uk, .ac.uk, .com. Should be non-profit organisations.

### Name resolution
- DNS name resolution is performed by a resolver 
- First name server may not know the answer, but knows the address of a different name server to ask
- Steps can be handled
	- **Iteratively** - Resolver asks each name server in turn, or
	- **Recursively** - the first server ask is the second and so on

### Cacheing
- Every response has a time to live (ttl)
- This determines how long things are cached for
- This is critical to the performance of DNS
- Cached responses are non-authoritative

### Other Notes on DNS
- Dynamic DNS (DDNS) - Records may be updated automatically
- Rather insecure, secure extensions for DNS (DNSSEC) are not universally available/used
- DNS over HTTPS (DOH) is a proposed standard for browsers to do DNS over HTTPS to trusted DoH servers
- DNS can be done by multicast without a server
- DNS is also used to exfiltrate data or as a hidden control channel

### Summary 
- DNS is a global name service used in the internet
	- Supports host name resolution (A records), service aliases (CNAME)
- DNS is divided into administrative domains or zones
	- Each is independently controlled and partially deligated
- DNS clients use a resolver to resolve domain names.
- DNS includes caching in resolvers and servers for scalability and performance