# The Standard Prelude
Starting the interpreter is done by `ghci`
Haskell comes with a large number of standard library functions. Also provides many useful functions on lists

Select first number of list:
``` haskell
head [1,2,3,4]
1
```
Remove the first element:
``` haskell
tail [1,2,3,4]
[2,3,4,5]
```
Select the nth element of a list: `!` is known as a bang
``` haskell
[1,2,3,4,5] !! 2
3
```
Select the first n elements of a list:
```haskell
take 3 [1,2,3,4,5]
[1,2,3]
```
Remove the first n elements:
``` haskell
drop 3 [1,2,3,4,5]
[4,5]
```
Calculate the length of a list:
``` haskell
length [1,2,3,4,5]
5
```
Calculate the sum of a list of numbers. Sum is 0 if list is empty. 0 is identity for addition:
``` haskell
sum [1,2,3,4,5]
15
```
Calculate the product of a list. Would return 1 if the list is empty. 1 is identity for multiplication:
```haskell
product [1,2,3,4,5]
120
```
Append two lists:
```haskell
[1,2,3] ++ [4,5]
[1,2,3,4,5]
```
Reverse a list:
```haskell
reverse [1,2,3,4,5]
[5,4,3,2,1]
```

# Function Application 
In maths function application is denoted using parentheses and multiplication of denoted using juxtaposition or space. In maths it would look like:
`f(a,b) + c d`
In haskell is denoted using space and multiplication denoted using *:
`f a b + c*d`
Function application is assume to have higher priority than all other operators
`f a + b`
means (haskell does this) `(f a) + b` rather than `f(a+b)`

# Haskell scripts
Can define your own functions
New functions are defined within a script, a text file comprising a sequence of definitions. Normally have `.hs` 

> ``

Is a infix operator. x `f` y is just syntactic sugar for `f x y`
Have to reload `:reload` once files been saved to ghci no there's a change
## Naming requirements
Function and argument names must begin with a lower-case letter
By convention, list arguments usually have an *s* suffix on their name

## The layout Rule
In a sequence of definitions, each definition must begin in precisely the same column
Means you don't have to do explicitly grouping, using {}, can instead use indentation/columns for definitions