# Alternatives to Inner Classes
Only had one place in the code where we created the iterator subclass and nowhere where its name is used.
Might be annoying to keep creating a class each time we need one object somewhere in the code

- An anonymous class is an inner class without a name.
- Instead of giving a class a name and saying that the class extends/implements some class, name the super-class and then give the implementation of the changes.

# Lambdas
- Simpler syntax for an anonymous class when it sub classes : an interface which has only one method
- Both of these are important!
- Give it an implementation of the method
	- Only one method on the interface so it knows the method name
	- Knows the return type
	- Knows the parameters types
- Use `->` operator. 
- To the left of the `->` are the parameters
- To the right is the expression to evaluate to return the result value

## Variable Capture
- Lambda expressions can capture final(constant) variables from the surroundings. This kind of puts a copy of this variable inside the Lambda.
- Can also use member variables, so it can capture the 'this' object

## Expressions
Can think of them as a way of wrapping up a function in an object
Once have an object, we keep an object reference to it
Can use sub-type polymorphism and treat it as the base-class.
Can access member variables or final local variables

## Summary
If need an object to handle a function, could:
- Create an object of a new top-level class
- Create an object of an inner class
- Create an object of an inner class
- Create an object of an anonymous class
- Create a Lambda