## Patterns
Patterns help us to identify ways which a problem can be solved. Identify the pattern for the problem, then look at how people have solved this in the past

## Responsibilities and good design
If a class has multiple types of responsibilities, usually better to split it into multiple classes. Can 'switch out' combinations of implementations of these responsibilities
Have strategy pattern, observer pattern, iterator pattern
# Some final patterns
## Creational
Creational patterns are patterns related to creation of objects
- Singleton: only one instance of this class
- Factory - wrap up the creation of another object(s), particularly when you don't know what to create
- Both use a method to create the object, not new directly

## Singleton
You create one instance when needed. Basic singleton in java uses a static method. 
- A static member is in the class not each instance, shared between all instances. One copy only per class.
- Static members are associated with the class rather tan the object. Can share it across other objects.
- Keep track of the one object created in a static member variable, never create an object of the class manually

# Factory Pattern
- Factory is an object which manufactures other objects 
- We will concentrate on simple examples, although there are more complex powerful examples of this
- Dont need to know which precise sub-class it will create - can let the factory decided
- Controlling the creation of different objects can have a number of uses

# Singleton vs Factory
Both have a method for creating objects for you. Shared objects for singleton, multiple objects for the factory.
Simple factory has a 'factory' object which is responsible for creating the objects.
Singleton has a static member function/method

# Design Patterns Summary
- **Observer**: Tell me when something happens
- **Strategy**: Lets another object modify the behaviour of an object
- **Iterator**: Lets you iterate through the contents
- **Singleton**: Create just one instance and use it anywhere
- **Simple Factory**: Delegate the job of choosing which lass to actually create to another object

# Final Summary
- **Objects**: Collection of data, set of methods which act up on the data
- **Access Permissions**: Packages are very important because of access privileges in Java
	- Public - Anything can access this
	- Protected - This class + this package + subclasses can access this
	- nothing(package) - This class + this package can access it
	- Private - Only this class can access this 