# Part 1
## Origins
- 1994, open source project
- Used to be an acronym for Personal Home Page
- Used for from handling, file processing and database access
- Is a server-side scripting language whose scripts are embedded in HTML documents.
- OOP language. PHP is interpreted and is dynamically typed

## Basic Features
PHP code can be specified in an HTML document using
```php
<?php ?>
```

To declare and use variables use `$` symbol. Dont have to specify what data type it is.
Use `echo` to output to display, similar to how print works 

Control statements are the same as C and Javascript
## Strings
converts $msgs into a string like + in java script

String functions
- chop - remove white space from the right end
- trim - remove white space from both ends
- ltrim - remove white space from the left end

## Arrays
- A PHP array is a generalisation of the arrays of other languages
- A PHP array is a mapping of keys to values, where the keys can be numbers or strings
- Use array() construct, which takes one or more key => value pairs as parameters and returns an array of them (basically a dictionary)
- Loops are the same as in C and Javascript
- Can use foreach - goes through each item in an array and does something 

### Array Methods
- `is_array()` - check if a variable is an array
- `unset()` - to destroy an array
- `count()` - to sort an array
- `shuffle()` - to shuffle the elements of an array
- `explode()` - to convert the words of a sentence into an array

## Functions
Objects are passed by reference
Everything else by value

## Other
- Can include library by using include
- Can also define a class destructor - Called when you remove an object
- Can also easily clone objects by using clone

## Inheritance
- Data members can be declared public, private and protected
- Can override a function implemented in the base class with a function in the derived class

# Part 2
To access database, use MySQLi extension.
Has multiple benefits:
- Object-oriented interface
- Support for prepared statements
- Support for multiple statements
- Support for transactions

## SQL
MySQL database supports prepared statements. Used to execute the same statement repeatedly with high efficiency. Consists of 2 stages, prepare and execute.
 - Prepare stage: Statement template is sent to the database server so it can perform syntax check and initialise the server
 - Execute stage:Client binds parameter values and sends them to the server. Server then creates a statement