# Theories and Frameworks

## Presence and Telepresence

**Presence** - Sensation of being in a particular setting
**Telepresence** - Sense of presence via a digital medium

### Strength
**Interactivity** - The degree to which users of a medium can influence and change the form and content of the environment
**Vividness** - The representational richness of a mediated environment

### Interactivity
Range (of control)
- The number of different elements they can control
- The amount they can be varied
Speed (response time)
- direct control over the environment
- important for transparency of control
Mapping
- Between the interaction and the affect
- Good intuitive mapping promotes interactivity
- Must be customisable by the user

### Vividness
**Breadth** - Number of senses being stimulated
**Depth** - The resolution/quality of those modes

### Task
- Minecraft = Control everything, change version, change time, dimension, what you can do. Good mapping, being able to interact, and can customize by the user. The user is in control, can visually see
- Teams = Specific time, limited control. Streamline actions/processes. Low amount of variance. Environment is lacking, basic view, control basic features. Wysiwyg, transparent at what you can do, as you can see. There's no *hidden features*.  Get instant feedback, and response.  Intuitive mapping. Change profile and theme., and basic settings, notifications, sounds i/o.
## Common Ground Theory
- People rely on a shared basis of knowledge, belief and suppositions
- The grounding process - process of how people use communication to produce/identify common ground between them

Why Common Ground
......
### Task
Technical issues and needing common ground, continuing tention. Lose the interactivity of physical environment as environment hasn't changed. Interactivity with I/O, not everyone always has their own, so can reduce participation.
## Distance Matter Framework

Factors affecting remote collaboration:
- Common ground
- Collaboration readiness
- Collaboration technology readiness
- Coupling of work
- Organizational management

### Common Ground
Difficult when the risk of misunderstanding is high 

Mutual knowledge problem 
- failure to communicate and retain contextual information
- ....

*The more common ground people can establish, the easier the communication*

### Collaboration Readiness
Whether participants are ready to engage with others
- Captures the motivational aspects of collaboration
- Related to incentive structures that reward participants based on their engagement with others
- Other important aspects: trust, commitment and transparency