# 25. Revision

## Computer Design
### Registers
- **Data Registers** - Any sort of data for special functions. 
- **Program Counter-** Holds the next instruction.
- **Program status word**  - admin, stores the mode bit. Which mode the CPU is in, kernel mode or user mode.
- **User Mode** - Direct access to a subset of instructions the CPU can carry out
- **Kernel mode** - Access to the full set of instructions. Including privileged memory locations. 
- Normally compiler decides which mode to use

### Memory Management Unit
*Location of an address*
Doesn't know where in memory an executable will run. Variables require memory, they need to have a memory space
- **Logic Address Space** -  Used by the processor and the compiler (starts at 0). What you use when you write code. Every process has one [0,MAX^64] 
- **Physical Address Space** - Seen by the hardware/OS [0,MAX] (Determined by the amount of physical memory)
Also responsible for address translation `physical = locgical + x`

### Moors Law
> **Moore's law** - The number of transistors on an integrated circuit doubles roughly every two years. 

Closely linked but necessarily related to performance. 
Still continuing but the power wall slows performance improvements of single core
Can extract parallelism automatically, can implement it at the lowest level

### Multi-core, hyper-threaded processors
Evolution in hardware has implications on OS design
The process scheduling needs to account for load balancing and CPU affinity. Need to decide **when** and **where** it is going to run

### Micro Kernels
All non-essential functionality is extracted from the kernel. These are easier to extend, more portable and more reliable.
Frequent system calls cause mode switches/overhead

**Monolithic Systems** - All procedures into one single executable running in kernel mode. However, they are difficult to maintain. Current versions of Windows, and Linux are implemented as this.