# 6. Concurrency
_17/10/22_
## Concurrency
- Threads/processes execute concurrently and can share resources. (Multi-programmining improves system utilisation)
- A thread/process can be interrupted at any point in time. Process state is saved in the process control block
- Outcome of programs may become unpredictable. Sharing data can lead to inconsistencies, outcome of execution may depend on the order in which instructions are carried out.

## Race Conditions
- A race condition occurs when multiple threads/processes access shared data and the result is dependent on the order in which the instructions are interleaved. 
- Mechanisms to provide controlled/synchronised access to data and avoid race conditions
## Concurrency within the OS
### Data Structures
- Kernels are preemptive these days. (Multiple processes/threads are running in the kernel. These cannot be interrupted any any point)
- The kernel maintains data structures
	- Accessed concurrently/in parallel
	- Can be subject to concurrency issues
- OS must make sure that interactions within the OS do not result in rare conditions
### Resources
- Processes share resources, including memory, files etc.
- Operating system must:
	- Provide locking mechanisms to implement/support mutual exclusions and prevent starvation/deadlocks
	- Allocate and de-allocate these resources safely

## Critical Sections, Mutual Exclusion
- **Critical Section**: set of instructions in which shared resources between processes/threads are changed 
- **Mutual Exclusion**"": must be enforced for critical sections. 
	- Only one process at a time should be in the critical section
	- Processes have to get "permission" before entering their critical section
- Any solution to the critical section problem must satisfy the following requirements:\
	- **Mutual exclusion**: only one process can be in its critical section at any one point in time
	- **Progress**: any process must be able to enter its critical section at some point in time
	- **Fairness/bounded waiting**"": fairly distributed waiting times/processes cannot be made to wait indefinitely.
- Requirements have to be satisfied, independent of the order in which sequences are executed.

## Deadlocks
> Set of processes/threads is deadlocked if each process/thread in the set is waiting for an event that only the other process/thread in the set can cause

Four conditions must hold for deadlocks to occur:
1. **Mutual exclusion**: a resource can be assigned to at most one process at a time
2. **Hold and wait condition**: a resource can be held whilst requesting new resources
3. **No preemption**: resources cannot be forcefully taken away from a process
4. **Circular wait**: there is a circular chain of two or more processes, waiting for a resource held by the other processes.

- No deadlocks can occur if one of the conditions is not satisfied.