# Rank-Nullity Theorem
Let $f:E\to F$ be a linear mapping.
The rank of $f$ is the dimension of the image, $rk(f) := dim(Im(f))$
The rank is an invariant of the map.
  
The dimension of the kernel, $dim(ker(f))$ is said *nullity* of a mapping.
## Theorem
Under the hypothese: the sum of rank and nullity of a mapping is equal to the dimension of the vector space $(E,+,.)$:
$$dim(ker(f)) + dim(Im(f)) = dim(E)$$
*Usually $dim(Im(f))$ is the hardest to calculate and this theorem allows an easy way to compute it as $dim(E)-dim(ker(f))$*

## Proof
If $dim(ker(f))=0$ then $f$ is injective. If the basis spans the image, the vectors are linearly independent. 
## Corollaries of Rank-Nullity Theorem
Let $f:E\to E$ be an endomorphism where $(E,+,.)$ is a finite-dimensional vector space.
- If $f$ is **injective** then it is also surjective
- if $f$ is **surjective** then it is also injective
### Corollary
Let $f:E\to F$ be a linear mapping with $(E,+,.)$ and $(F,+,.)$. 
- Consider $dim(E)>dim(F)$. Follows that the mapping is not **injective**.
- Consider $dim(E)<dim(F)$. Follows that the mapping is not **surjective**
# Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors
Let $f:E\to E$ be an endomorphism where $(E,+,.)$ is a vectors space with dimension $K$.
Every vector $x$ such that $f(x)=\lambda x$ with a $\lambda$ scalar and $x\in E\div \{o_E\}$ is said *eigenvector* of the endomorphism $f$ related to the *eigenvalue* $\lambda$
*Eigenvalue and eigenvector are building blocks of reality*

Dan terms:
$\lambda$ = eigenvalue (num of x)
$x$ = eigenvector (any number)
homogeneous = (0,0)
# Eigenspace
Let $f:E\to E$ be an endomorphism
The set $V(\lambda)\subset E$ with $\lambda\in K$ defined as
$$V(\lambda)=e\{o_E\}\cup\{x\in E|f(x)=\lambda x\}$$
This is said *eigenspace* of the endomorphism $f$ related to the eigenvalue $\lambda$. The dimension of the eigenspace is said *geometric multiplicity* of the eigne value $\lambda$ and is indicated with $\gamma_m$
# Determining Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors
Let $f:E\to E$ be an endomorphism. Let $p(\lambda)$ be the order $n$ characteristic polynomial related to the endomorphism. The number of roots of $\rho(\lambda)$ is called algebraic multiplicity. 
# Introduction to Diagonalization
One variable for each line in a diagonal manner.
Not all the mappings/matrices can be diagonalized, Need to have enough linearly independent columns of $P$.

Let $f:E\to E$ be an endomorphism. The matrix is diagonalizable if and only if it has n linearly independent eigenvectors:
- All the eigenvalues are distinct
- The algebraic multiplicity of each eigenvalue coincides with its geometric multiplicity

## Symmetric Mappings
If the mapping is characterised by a symmetric matrix, then can prove that;
- The mapping is always diagonalisable
- The transformation matrix $P$ can be built to be orthogonal ($P^{-1}=P^{T})$. Also means the new reference system given by the eigenvectors is also a convenient orthogonal system