# 1. EoL and Pitch Preparation
_10/10/22_

- All Eols (and pitches) are marked 12% of total
	- The **average** of all three results in the final Eol mark
	- Better Eols/pitches have a **higher chance** getting the 1st choice

## Eol
### What to consider
- **Motivation (20%)**
	- Motivation for the project, understanding of sponsor, matching of team skills to project
	- Write different Eol and pitch for every project. Work in sub-teams but share result with whole team
	- Staff/company is going to think who is the best. Need to show interest.
- **Understanding of the brief and context (20%)**
	- Understanding of brief and the wider context of the project. Consider existing products/competitors
	- Need to carry out background research on brief/business.
	- Contact the stakeholder/sponsor for additional clarification (only if necessary)
- **Preliminary analysis (30%)**
	- Proposed initial approach and motivation. If there's an area which isn't strong, can say we want to learn more about it
	- State what libraries could use to help achieve the project
	- Suggest a preliminary design/technology/approach/validation
	- Identification of challenges and issues
- **Management (20%)**
	- The project management approach, identification of challenges
	- Explain how you will manage the project
	- What are the key parts of the project, who will address then
	- Risk analysis: potential challenges, problems, and mitigation, skills coverage and skills gap.
- **Style (10%)**
	- Formatting of document, language/grammar/spelling
	- Write a cohesive text that is well structured, clear formatting, appropriate sub headings etc
	- Need to pay attention to grammar/spelling and ensure the document is proof read by another member of the team
## The Pitch Video
10 minute presentation (submit in .mp4)
### Potential Structure
- Introduction/outline/welcome/roles
- Understanding of the project & context
- Technical analysis/proposed approach 
- Reasons why they should choose you
- Summary of key points

1 or 2 people present, other people to analysis and slides etc
### Preparation
- Choose pitch video lead and rehearse before recording. Need to look organised!
- Prepare some slides (max 5-6), avoid overloading them with content. Use visual elements (diagrams/flowcharts/animations)
- Content contains sections of Eoi, include a work plan, packages, milestones etc. What we require from the sponsor
- Need to give everyone the change to contribute to the pitch
- Style and delivery needs to be grand. Need to be engaged, motivated, enthusiastic etc.