# 18. Revision

## Introduction
Core attributes of maintainable software 
- Readable code
- Strong documentation
- Consistent variable/functions conventions
- Standard code layout
- Testability

Main principles for developing software
- Maintainability benefits most from adhearing to simple guidelines
- Maintainability is not an afterthought should be addressed from the very beginning of a development project
- Some violation are worse than others; the more a software system compiles with the guidelines for more maintainable it is

Software maintenance involves - The process for managing and executing software maintenance activities is described. Also need to consider how we can reduce the effort of maintenance

Main Categories
- **Corrective maintenance** - Finding and fixing errors in the system
- **Adaptive Maintenance** - The system has to be adapted to change in the environment in which it operates
- **Perfective + Preventive Maintenance** - Users of the system have new or changed requirements. Ways identified to increase the quality or prevent future bugs.

## Basic Concepts
- **Abstraction** - Simple things like objects represent more complex underlying code and data
- **Encapsulation** - Ability to protect some components of the object from external access. 
	- Making public variables private
	- Hiding the implementation details of a class
	- Helps with program maintenance (doesn't affect other classes)
- **Inheritance** - Ability for a class to extend or override functionality of another class
- **Polymorphism** - The provision of a single interface to entities of different types. 
	- Compile time - Method overloading
	- Run time - Method overriding
- `this` - Refers to the implicit parameter inside the class
- **Constructors** - Invoked using the `new` operator
- Passing Data - Can either pass by value or pass by reference
- **Overloaded Methods** - Methods of the same class that have the same name but different numbers/types. Compiler will treat them as completely different methods
- **Static Field** - Shared by all objects of the class. Normally stored with the class code. Not initialised in constructors.
- **Non-Static Field** - Belongs to an individual object
- **Static Methods** - Access and manipulate class statics fields. Belongs to the class, not an instance of it. Cannot access instance fields or call methods of the class.
- **Instance Methods** - Can access all fields and call all methods of their class (Static and non-static).